Doc: Add blogpost for honor PV reclaim policy fix (#30556)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2021-11-18-prevent-persistentvolume-leaks-when-deleting-out-of-order.md

ignored under certain circumstance. For a `Bound` PV-PVC pair the ordering of PV-PVC
deletion determines whether the PV reclaim policy is honored. The reclaim policy 
is honored if the PVC is deleted first, however, if the PV is deleted prior to 
deleting the PVC then the reclaim policy is not exercised. As a result of this behavior,
the associated storage asset in the external infrastructure is not removed.

## PV reclaim policy with Kubernetes v1.23

The new behavior ensures that the underlying storage object is deleted from the backend when users attempt to delete a PV manually.

**Kubernetes v1.23 doesn't enable the fix by default**. To get the corrected behavior,
update the CSI
[`external-provisioner`](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-provisioner)
to `v4.0.0` or later, and enable the `HonorPVReclaimPolicy`
[feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) for the
`external-provisioner`.
If you're not using a CSI driver to integrate with your storage backend, the fix isn't
available. The Kubernetes project doesn't have a current plan to fix that bug for in-tree

> storage drivers: the future of those in-tree drivers is deprecation and migration to CSI.

Reviewer: Do you need to turn on any feature gate in the control plane? Reason I'm asking is because it sounds like the v1.23 has a new behavior, and usually new behaviors like that _are_ behind a feature gate.

Reviewer 2: Yes, the feature gate `HonorPVReclaimPolicy` is for both kube-controller-manager and external-provisioner.
@deepakkinni Please clarify that.

Author: I've updated the doc and explicitly mentioned the feature flag that needs to be enabled.

---
layout: blog

> title: "Kubernetes 1.23 Prevent PersistentVolume leaks when deleting out of order"

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
title: "Kubernetes 1.23: Prevent PersistentVolume leaks when deleting out of order"
```

date: 2021-12-15T10:00:00-08:00
slug: kubernetes-1-23-prevent-persistentvolume-leaks-when-deleting-out-of-order
---

**Author:** Deepak Kinni (VMware)

> [PersistentVolume](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) (or PVs for short) are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes [PersistentVolumes](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) (or PVs for short) are
```

> associated with [Reclaim Policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#reclaim-policy).
> The Reclaim Policy is used to determine the actions that need to be taken by the storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
associated with a [_reclaim policy_](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#reclaim-policy).
That reclaim policy is used to determine the actions that need to be taken by the storage
```

backend on deletion of the PV.
Where the reclaim policy is `Delete`, the expectation is that the storage backend
releases the storage resource that was allocated for the PV. In essence, the reclaim
policy needs to honored on PV deletion.

With the recent Kubernetes v1.23 release, an alpha feature lets you configure your
cluster to behave that way and honor the configured reclaim policy.

## How did reclaim work in previous Kubernetes releases?

> [PersistentVolumeClaim](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#Introduction) (or PVC for short) is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [PersistentVolumeClaim](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#Introduction) (or PVC for short) is
```

> a request for storage by a user. A PV and PVC are considered [Bound](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#Binding)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a request for storage by a user. A PV and PVC are considered
[_bound_](/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/#binding) to each other
```
? (note case fix for fragment identifier `#binding`)

needs to be removed manually.

To sum it up, the reclaim policy associated with the Persistent Volume is currently
ignored under certain circumstance. For a `Bound` PV-PVC pair the ordering of PV-PVC
deletion determines whether the PV reclaim policy is honored. The reclaim policy 
is honored if the PVC is deleted first, however, if the PV is deleted prior to 
deleting the PVC then the reclaim policy is not exercised. As a result of this behavior,
the associated storage asset in the external infrastructure is not removed.

## PV reclaim policy with Kubernetes v1.23

The new behavior ensures that the underlying storage object is deleted from the backend when users attempt to delete a PV manually.

#### How to enable new behavior?

To make use of the new behavior, you must have upgraded your cluster to the v1.23 release of Kubernetes.
You need to make sure that you are running the CSI [`external-provisioner`](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-provisioner) version `4.0.0`, or later.
You must also enable the `HonorPVReclaimPolicy` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) for the

> `external-provisioner` and for the `kube-controller-manager`.

Reviewer 2: This feature gate is for `kube-controller-manager`.  There is a way to specify that when starting `kube-controller-manager`.  

`external-provisioner` just checks this same feature gate. User does not specify this feature gate when starting `external-provisioner` .  Please clarify that.

Reviewer: Thanks for spotting this @xing-yang.

> `external-provisioner` just checks this same feature gate.

How's that done? (I didn't think an API client has a way to check what feature gates are enabled for control plane components). Maybe the answer is that you need to turn on the feature gate for the controller manager and then so long as you're using v4.0.0 or later of external-provisioner, you get the behavior you want anyway?

I think I'm therefore also asking: how does the `external-provisioner` decide whether or not to set the finalizer `external-provisioner.volume.kubernetes.io/finalizer` ?
(If the answer's complicated we don't need to mention it in this article)

Reviewer 2: Just chatted with @deepakkinni.  We actually do need to specify the same feature gate when starting the `external-provisioner`.  Please ignore my comments.

> To ensure the new behavior the following feature gates need to be enabled:
> 1. **Kubernetes v1.23 doesn't enable the fix by default** ,`HonorPVReclaimPolicy` feature flag needs to enabled on `kube-controller-manager`.
> 2. CSI [`external-provisioner`](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-provisioner) needs to be upgraded to `v4.0.0` or later, and enable `HonorPVReclaimPolicy` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) for the
>    `external-provisioner`.

Reviewer: Is this right?
```suggestion
To make use of the new behavior, you must have upgraded your cluster to the v1.23 release of Kubernetes. 
You need to make sure that you are running the CSI [`external-provisioner`](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-provisioner) version `4.0.0`, or later. You uast also enable the
`HonorPVReclaimPolicy` [feature gate](/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/) for the
`external-provisioner` and for the `kube-controller-manager`.
```
?

Author: Yes, changed it as per you suggestion :)
